---
title: FAQ
description: Frequently asked questions about the INBDE
---

## Frequently Asked Questions about INBDE

### What is the INBDE?

The INBDE is a test designed to integrate the biomedical, clinical, and
behavioral sciences and evaluate the dental cognitive skills of international
candidates seeking to earn admission into advanced standing programs in the US
dental schools.

### How long is the INBDE?

The first day has three sessions of 100 questions each and 1 hour 45 minutes for
each session, and the last session has 60 case-based questions to be completed
in 1 hour 45 mins. The second day is a half-day exam where 140 questions will be
asked in two sessions of 1 hour 45 mins each. Breaks are given between each
session.

### What is the question format?

The INBDE is a 500 question test spanning over one and a half days with 360
questions asked on the first day at the Prometric examination center and in the
majority consists of case-based questions.

### What kind of questions are asked in the INBDE?

The exam has all sorts of questions like case-based along with common questions
comprising of diagnosis and treatment planning, including all aspects of
diagnosis, assessment, physical evaluation of the structure, appearance and
function, underlying conditions, and psychological, social, and behavioural
influences to derive an accurate diagnosis as well as safe treatment
alternatives for any patient.

## What If I Fail The INBDE?

Candidates who do not clear the exam on the first attempt can retake it.
Candidates are eligible to appear up to 5 attempts for the examination and must
wait for a minimum of 90 days between each unsuccessful test attempt and post
their third failed attempt; candidates must wait for at least one year before
reappearing for the test.

## Where Can The Exam Be Taken?

International candidates cannot appear for the INBDE from the comfort of their
home country. The INBDE can be taken only in the US and Canada and requires
candidates to fly to these countries to take this exam.

### Who is eligible to take the INBDE?

Dental students or graduates from CODA-accredited programs, or those who have
completed an equivalent degree, are eligible. International candidates may need
to fulfill additional requirements. Learn more on the [JCNDE's official
website](https://jcnde.ada.org/inbde).

### How much does it cost?

The registration fee for the INBDE is $975, and fees for rescheduling range from
$40 to $150, depending on how close to the test date the changes are made.

### What score do I need to pass?

The INBDE is scored on a pass/fail basis, with passing scores determined by the
JCNDE. Results are typically available 3-4 weeks after the exam.

### Can I retake the INBDE?

If you fail, you can retake the exam up to five times. After five attempts,
special permission is required for further retakes.
