---
title: Secondary Application
---

The **secondary application** is a crucial step in the **dental school
admissions process**. Some schools integrate their **supplemental questions**
into the **CAAPID portal’s Program Material section** (as we discussed earlier),
allowing you to complete and submit them alongside your primary application.
Some will send you an email with their specific requirements. However, **not all
schools require a secondary application**, and for those that do, the process,
format, and requirements can vary significantly.

After submitting your **main CAAPID application**, expect to receive
**supplemental application requests** from various schools, typically via email.
These applications often have **additional fees** ranging from **$50 to $300 per
school**, with an average cost of around **$200** per application.

## What to Expect

### Essay Questions

Some questions may be similar to those in the CAAPID application, while others
may focus on specific aspects of your background, motivation, or alignment with
the school's mission.

### School-Specific Assessments

Some schools require additional tests as part of the application.

#### Casper Test

A situational judgment test assessing non-cognitive skills (UCLA uses this test).

<iframe
  width="560"
  height="315"
  src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/7h0mvIs3FCs?si=nb3AAA8O2xG-2KTA"
  title="YouTube video player"
  frameborder="0"
  allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share"
  referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin"
  allowfullscreen
></iframe>

#### Kira Talent Assessment

A video and written response assessment evaluating communication skills (NYU uses this test).

<iframe
  width="560"
  height="315"
  src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/rfR-2AoSPAw?si=KaBzKz71LiV0icxN"
  title="YouTube video player"
  frameborder="0"
  allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share"
  referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin"
  allowfullscreen
></iframe>

#### Other School-Specific Tests

Some programs may have additional evaluations, so check each school's
requirements carefully.

### Direct Score Submission

Many schools require you to send TOEFL and INBDE scores directly to them,
meaning you'll need to purchase additional score reports from the respective
testing services (ETS for TOEFL and ADA for INBDE) even though you already
submitted them through CAAPID.

Each school will provide detailed instructions regarding their supplemental
application process after you submit your primary CAAPID application.

## How to Approach the Secondary Application

#### Take Your Time but Don’t Delay

Some schools prioritize applications based on when the **secondary application**
is submitted, so aim for a **balance between quality and speed**.

#### Provide New and Relevant Information

Use the secondary application to expand on your experiences, skills, or
motivation, rather than repeating what's in your CAAPID application.

#### Be Concise but Meaningful

A **one-sentence response** may seem disinterested, while a **page-long
response** may be too wordy. Aim for **clarity and impact**.

#### Highlight Your Growth and Strengths

Focus on personal and professional experiences that showcase **resilience,
adaptability, leadership, and problem-solving**.

#### Don’t skip the preparation

For Casper, Kira and other additional assessment tests, review sample questions
and practice while keeping track of time.

Since some schools **begin their review process by first looking at the
secondary application**, a **well-crafted response can significantly strengthen
your candidacy**. Prepare in advance by researching common secondary application
questions and drafting strong, authentic responses.
