---
title: Overview
description: A quick step by step overview of the process
---

This is a quick step by step overview of the process. If you are looking for a
detailed guide to applying to ASP, continue to [Detailed Guide](/c/applying-to-advanced-standing/detailed-guide/introduction).

### Register and get your DENTPIN

This is your unique ID number for taking exams. Get your [DENTPIN
HERE](https://www.ada.org/education/manage-your-dentpin).

### Get a **course-by-course evaluation** of your foreign degree

All evaluations must go through
[ECE](https://www.ece.org/ECE/Credential-Evaluations). This is required to
register for and take the exams.

**You must choose on their website from drop down menu to send one copy to:**

<address>
  The Joint Commission on National Dental Examinations (JCNDE)<br />
  211 E. Chicago Ave<br />
  Chicago, IL<br />
  60611
</address>

To take INBDE exam ECE evaluation is enough. Keep in mind that some schools
(such as Loma Linda University in CA and others) require WES evaluation as
part of their admission process. So make sure to contact your desired school
directly and research each school’s requirements yourself.

### Register for INBDE

Once you receive an approval email from JCNDE that they received your
evaluations you will be eligible to register for INBDE according to the
instructions in that email. So, register for the
[INBDE](https://jcnde.ada.org/inbde). You have six months to prepare from the
date of payment.

### Prepare For The Exam

More about materials and how to prepare for INBDE you can find
[here.](https://www.notion.so/INBDE-Everything-you-need-to-know-Study-Materials-Social-Groups-8a8852b35afa452b8c0efa540f3c546f?pvs=21)
Expect to spend about 4-6 months on intensive studying, at least 5 hours a day,
depending on your level of readiness. The INBDE has a pass/fail system. A score
of 75 or above means pass (you won't see your score), below 74 is fail (you'll
see your score).

### Take the TOEFL

The best study material I've encountered is [Notefull - a complete
course](https://www.notefull.com/getting-started/). Also use YouTube to learn
more about the exam and its structure. This [Youtube
Channel](https://www.youtube.com/@TSTPrep) offers welathg of infromation on
preparation for TOEFL. Use the official [TOEFL
website](https://www.ets.org/toefl.html) to find tests for preparation. I highly
recommend purchasing the tests to go over them a few times before the exam to
check your timing and practice the actual exam experience. The exam has four
sections - reading, listening, speaking, and writing. Aim for a score of 100 or
more (out of 120).

### Submit Your Documents To The Chosen Schools

After successfully passing all exams (INBDE, TOEFL), submit your documents to
the chosen schools through [CAAPID
APPLICATION](https://www.adea.org/dental_education_pathways/CAAPID/Pages/ADEAPASSApplicants.aspx).
Find out more about CAAPID Application do’s, how’s and don’ts
[here](https://www.notion.so/ADEA-CAAPID-Application-Overview-Supplementla-Secondary-Applications-048cdf62515443b38464bd567cd119fe?pvs=21).

### Wait For Invitations

If you're lucky, schools will invite you for an interview, which usually has two
parts. The first is the
[interview](https://www.notion.so/c6ec24d5f7714ea08682760b2c8769e7?pvs=21)
itself, where they'll talk to you about various topics. The second part is a
[practical test (bench
test)](https://www.notion.so/c7cbdf9fcd7d47429b20f52cd238a4b4?pvs=21) where they
can ask you to do a filling or tooth preparation for the crown, amalgam and
more.

### Receive Your Acceptance Letter

If all goes well, they'll send you an acceptance letter. Once you reach this
stage, you won't need too much guidance at least from me. You’ll get the
necessary instructions from your school.

### A Few Words About Finances

The application process itself costs a good amount of money, and the tuition is
even more expensive. We're talking about $200,000 to $300,000, which you can
only get loans for if you're a US citizen or have a green card. So, if you're
not sure you can financially afford the education or get a loan, it might be
better not to even start.

Applying for a Residency Program requires the same steps and documents from a
foreign-trained dentist. The only difference is that you apply for programs
through a Centralized Application Service - [ADEA **Postdoctoral Application
Support Service (PASS).**](https://www.adea.org/pass/)
