---
title: Self Study
description: Self study for the bench test
---

If you are someone who can not afford the dental bench preparation courses or
you prefer self study, the next option is for you. Below you can find reliable
video resources to study from. Keep in mind that you would still need to buy
instruments and burs and other materials to practice yourself or you may ask a
dental clinic where you work to provide you with the materials and space for
practice. I'll also include some of the materials for your dental home station
further in the guide.

The best practice videos available on YouTube are the videos from Dr.Stevenson.
He clearly explains the concept and demonstrates the preparation along with
explanations. He provides the dimensions and measurements for teeth preparations
that most of the schools follow. Check each of his videos and practice as many
times until you achieve the perfect result in your prep skills.

### Stevenson Dental Solutions

[Stevenson Dental Solutions](https://www.youtube.com/@StevensonDentalSolutions)
channel focuses on instructional videos in all aspects of restorative dentistry,
with details, precision, excellence, and techniques that may be readily mastered
by those who choose to apply themselves.

### Dr. Afnan O. Al-Zain

[Dr. Afnan O. Al-Zain](https://www.youtube.com/@drafnanoalzain) is another great
resource for self-study. She provides great and explanations for the
preparations in two languages Arabic and English. I found her videos very
interesting with easy to follow guidelines.

The following resources give some valuable insights on preps for CDCA licensure
exams and provides measurements and ideal preparation guidelines. Though itâ€™s
not the bench test exam experience since at the licensure exam they provide
carious teeth (which is not the case at the bench test), but it is part of the
requirements to know the measurements and it is what dental schools teach their
students to pass the final licensure exams. You might want to check them out:

- [Endo and Prosth](https://dentistrymasterd.wordpress.com/2021/03/04/cdca-manikin-exam-endo-prosth-nov-2020/)
- [Restorative and Perio](https://dentistrymasterd.wordpress.com/2021/01/29/cdca-manikin-exam-restorative-and-perio-2021/)
