content/docs/related-paths-and-resources/communities-and-groups.mdx, before:

---
title: Communities and groups
description: Online Groups for INBDE, CAAPID, Bench Test & TOEFL Preparations
---

## INBDE Study Groups

<Aside>
  When studying for the INBDE, make sure to join the Facebook groups. Other students share updated
  study material and discuss practice questions there. Besides, they have study groups organized in
  different chats to join and find a study partner there.
</Aside>

Make sure to search for up to date social links and ask around other students
for recommendations on the groups. They might know more. Here are some of the
most popular groups on FB.

### Facebook Groups

- In [CAAPID & Pass
  Guidance]({{social.facebook.caapid}})
  group you can find the latest and updated information for school admissions and
  more.
- [INBDE
  group]({{social.facebook.inbde}}) covers all the important sources
  that you will need for your INBDE Exam Preparations.

### Other Social Groups

- Find study partners, study material and files in [INBDE Telegram group]({{social.telegram.inbde}})
- Check out
  [/r/thefrenchdentiste]({{social.reddit.frenchDentiste}}) to chat
  about practicing various decks

Commit message:

related path and sources content

content/docs/related-paths-and-resources/communities-and-groups.mdx, after:

---
title: Study Communities and Groups
description: Find the Best Online Communities for INBDE, CAAPID, Bench Test, and TOEFL Preparation
---

## INBDE Study Communities

<Aside>
  Joining **Facebook and Telegram study groups** can make your INBDE preparation much more
  effective. Students frequently share the **latest study materials**, discuss **practice
  questions**, and form **accountability-based study groups** through chat.
</Aside>

Before joining, always look for **active and up-to-date groups**. Ask peers or classmates for current recommendations, as group links and activity levels can change often.

### Facebook Groups

- [**CAAPID & PASS Guidance**](social.facebook.caapid) — A highly active community sharing the **latest updates, school admissions insights, and preparation tips**.
- [**INBDE Group**](social.facebook.inbde) — Focused on **INBDE preparation**, this group regularly shares **study resources, notes, and question banks**.

### Other Social Groups

- [**INBDE Telegram Group**](social.telegram.inbde) — Great for finding **study partners**, **shared files**, and **quick discussion threads**.
- [**/r/thefrenchdentiste**](social.reddit.frenchDentiste) — A Reddit community where international dentists discuss **study strategies**, **deck materials**, and **experiences preparing for U.S. exams**.
