---
title: Limited and Faculty Licenses
description: ""
---

An alternative path for exceptionally qualified dentists trained abroad is to
take up a faculty role in a dental school. In some states, being a full-time
faculty member allows you to practice dentistry within the institution under a
faculty license. In Massachusetts, for example, foreign-trained dentists may
qualify for either a Dental Intern Limited Licensure or a Full-Time Faculty
Limited Licensure.

The limited license permits foreign dentists to work in settings like public
health clinics, hospitals, dental schools, or prisons under the guidance of a
Massachusetts licensed dentist. These limited licenses are valid for one year
but can be renewed annually for up to five years. To extend the license beyond
five years, passing the NERB (North East Regional Examining Board) is necessary.

The Faculty license, on the other hand, enables foreign dentists to practice as
full-time faculty members in a dental school, also under the supervision of a
licensed dentist in Massachusetts. Unlike the limited license, faculty licenses
are renewed annually and can be renewed indefinitely. For more details, click
[here](https://www.mass.gov/limited-dental-licenses). Similar limited licensure
options are known to exist in Nebraska, Tennessee, and Maine.

However, a challenge with this route is that universities typically do not
publicly advertise faculty positions open to foreign dentists. It requires
proactive searching for open positions on individual university websites and
contacting the Director to inquire if they would consider your application. Most
faculty licensure processes require a valid job offer for application
eligibility.
